.\" api-rest-generatorall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every reference section in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/api-rest-generatorall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/api-rest-generatorall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH API-REST-GENERATORALL 1 "May 2026" "api-rest-generator 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
api-rest-generatorall \- the api-rest-generator comprehensive
reference (architecture, configuration, DDL dialects, type mapping,
template grammar, port discipline)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B api-rest-generator
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates every section so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  WHAT IT DOES
.RB "\(em " "schema in, fully-wired Spring Boot REST backend out"
.br
.B 2.  ARCHITECTURE
.RB "\(em " "Rust port of Kotlin source — module breakdown"
.br
.B 3.  CONFIGURATION
.RB "\(em " "config.properties key reference"
.br
.B 4.  DDL DIALECT NORMALISATION
.RB "\(em " "MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MSSQL specifics"
.br
.B 5.  TYPE MAPPING
.RB "\(em " "every DDL type to every JVM target language"
.br
.B 6.  TEMPLATE GRAMMAR
.RB "\(em " "{{placeholder}} substitution, per-language subdirs"
.br
.B 7.  PRIMARY KEY + FOREIGN KEY HANDLING
.br
.B 8.  KOTLIN VS JAVA OUTPUT DIFFERENCES
.br
.B 9.  PORT DISCIPLINE (Kotlin reference preserved)
.br
.B 10. TESTS &amp; PARITY
.br
.B 11. EXAMPLES
.br
.B 12. SEE ALSO
.RE

.SH 1. WHAT IT DOES
Feed
.B api-rest-generator
a raw SQL DDL dump (\fIpg_dump\fR / \fImysqldump\fR / SQLite
.B .dump
/ SSMS Generate Scripts) and it emits a fully wired Spring Boot REST
backend at the configured target package:
.RS 2
.IP \(bu 2
.B JPA entities
with
.IR @Id ,
.IR @ManyToOne ,
.I @JoinColumn
annotations
.IP \(bu 2
.B REST controllers
(GET / POST / PUT / DELETE) for each entity
.IP \(bu 2
.B DAO service layer
using a
.B GenericDao
pattern
.IP \(bu 2
.B Spring Data JPA repositories
for each entity
.IP \(bu 2
.B Constants module
(GlobalConstants) with the CONTEXT_PATH and shared enums
.RE
.PP
Output language is configurable: Java (Lombok), Kotlin (constructor
injection + var properties), Groovy (\fI@Canonical\fR).

.SH 2. ARCHITECTURE
The Rust port lives under
.RB \(aq src/ \(aq;
the original Kotlin source under
.RB \(aq src/main/kotlin/ \(aq
is preserved for reference and side-by-side verification. Module map:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/lib.rs
\(em re-exports the seven modules
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/entity.rs
\(em
.B Entity " + " ColumnToField
data types (1:1 port of
.BR dto/Entity.kt " + " dto/ColumnToField.kt )
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/constants.rs
\(em magic strings + 22 pre-compiled
.B regex::Regex
patterns (port of
.BR utils/EntityToRESTConstants.kt )
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/globals.rs
\(em process-wide config (language, db_type, package) via RwLock<GlobalsInner>
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/config.rs
\(em
.B .properties
file reader (uses
.IR java-properties
crate)
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/normalize.rs
\(em per-DB word-stream normalisation
(\fInormalize_postgresql_words\fR,
.IR normalize_sqlite_words ,
.IR normalize_mssql_words )
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/parser.rs
\(em the SQL word tokeniser + entity extractor (port of
.BR utils/Util.kt )
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/templates.rs
\(em template loader + renderer (port of
.BR templates/Templates.kt )
.IP \(bu 2
.B src/bin/main.rs
\(em entry point (port of
.BR Main.kt )
.RE

.SH 3. CONFIGURATION
.B src/main/resources/config.properties
keys (all required unless noted):
.TP
.B target.folder
Output root, e.g.
.RB \(aq build/generated/ \(aq.
Optional; defaults to
.RB \(aq build/generated/src/main/<lang>/ \(aq.
.TP
.B target.package
Java/Kotlin/Groovy package as a forward-slash path
(\fIcom/example/generated\fR).
.TP
.B file.name
DDL file relative to
.RB \(aq src/main/resources/ \(aq.
.TP
.B target.language
.BR java " | " kotlin " | " groovy
(default
.BR java ).
.TP
.B database.type
.BR mysql " | " postgresql " | " sqlite " | " mssql
(default
.BR mysql ).

.SH 4. DDL DIALECT NORMALISATION
Each dialect runs a per-DB pre-pass before the main parser sees the
tokens. See
.BR api-rest-generator (1)
for the per-dialect feature matrix. Implementation lives in
.B src/normalize.rs:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B normalize_postgresql_words
\(em handles
.IR "character varying" ,
.IR "timestamp [without|with] time zone" ,
.IR "double precision" ,
strips trailing
.RB \(aq ; \(aq " / " \(aq , \(aq.
.IP \(bu 2
.B normalize_sqlite_words
\(em strips
.IR "IF NOT EXISTS" ,
drops
.IR PRAGMA / INSERT / BEGIN / COMMIT / DELETE
statement runs.
.IP \(bu 2
.B normalize_mssql_words
\(em strips
.RB \(aq [bracket] \(aq
escapes, folds
.RB \(aq (max) \(aq
qualifiers, drops
.IR IDENTITY (n,n),
.IR CLUSTERED / NONCLUSTERED / ASC / DESC ,
.IR SET / USE / GO / EXEC / PRINT / IF / DROP / BEGIN / END
statement runs.
.RE

.SH 5. TYPE MAPPING
Full per-dialect type table:
.PP
.RS 4
.TS
tab(|);
l l l.
DDL type | Java | Kotlin
=
varchar(n)/text | String | String
nvarchar/nchar/ntext/char | String | String
uniqueidentifier | String | String
image/xml | String | String
int/tinyint | Integer | Int
integer/smallint/serial | Integer | Int
bigint/bigserial | Long | Long
float/real | Float | Float
double/numeric/decimal/money | Double | Double
datetime/date | LocalDate | LocalDate
datetime2/timestamp/datetimeoffset | LocalDateTime | LocalDateTime
time | LocalTime | LocalTime
bit/boolean | String | Boolean
.TE
.RE
.PP
Kotlin emits the more precise types (\fIInt\fR vs Java's
.IR Integer ,
.I Boolean
vs Java's
.IR String );
Groovy mirrors Java.

.SH 6. TEMPLATE GRAMMAR
Templates live under
.RB \(aq src/main/resources/templates/ \(aq
with per-language subdirs
.RB ( templates/kotlin/ " + " templates/groovy/ ).
The renderer substitutes:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{mainPackageName}}
\(em dotted package
.RB ( com.example.generated )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{entityName}}
\(em PascalCase entity class name
.RB ( Post )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{tableName}}
\(em raw table name
.RB ( post )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{serviceName}}
\(em lowercase entity name
.RB ( post )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{camelRepositoryName}}
\(em camelCase repository field
.RB ( postRepository )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{primaryKeyType}}
\(em
.B Long
(constant per
.IR PK_DATA_TYPE )
.IP \(bu 2
.B {{restServicePrefix}}
\(em
.B GlobalConstants.CONTEXT_PATH
.RE

.SH 7. PRIMARY KEY + FOREIGN KEY HANDLING
The parser walks the token stream looking for
.B PRIMARY KEY (col)
and
.B FOREIGN KEY (col) REFERENCES other_table(other_col)
clauses. When found, it rewrites the matching column's
.IR ColumnToField .
camel_case_field_name (stripping any trailing
.RB \(aq Id \(aq " or " \(aq id \(aq)
and sets
.I database_id_type
to
.RB \(aq @Id \(aq " or " \(aq @ManyToOne \(aq.
PostgreSQL
.B ALTER TABLE
constraints are tracked back to the right entity via
.B find_alter_table_entity
which scans the prior 10 tokens for an
.B ALTER TABLE
clause.

.SH 8. KOTLIN VS JAVA OUTPUT DIFFERENCES
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B Field declarations
\(em Kotlin uses
.B var name: Type = default
with sensible defaults
.RB ( "0L" " for " Long ", " "\"\"" " for " String );
Java uses
.B private Type name;
+ Lombok-generated getters/setters via
.IR @Data .
.IP \(bu 2
.B Nullability
\(em Kotlin date/time fields are emitted as
.B Type? = null
(JPA requires nullable defaults); Java leaves them as plain
.B private Type field
references.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Bit/Boolean
\(em Java treats
.B bit
as
.B String
(matches legacy JDBC); Kotlin uses
.BR Boolean .
.RE

.SH 9. PORT DISCIPLINE
The Kotlin source under
.RB \(aq src/main/kotlin/com/jakobmenke/bootrestgenerator/ \(aq
is the reference. Rust ports preserve the upstream type/function shape:
the 8-argument
.B list_segment_key_values
signature, the 5-element
.B get_string
tuple return, the tuple-key cache shape \(em even where Rust idiom
would suggest a struct \(em so reviewers can diff Kotlin vs Rust
side-by-side. Where clippy fires on these intentional shapes, targeted
.B #[allow]
attributes carry an explanation.

.SH 10. TESTS &amp; PARITY
.B tests/parity_smoke.rs
runs the full
.B DDL \(-> Vec<Entity>
pipeline against each of the four bundled dialect fixtures
.RB ( mysql_dump.sql ,
.IR pg_dump.sql ,
.IR sqlite_dump.sql ,
.IR mssql_dump.sql )
and pins shape invariants matching what the Kotlin
.B MainTest
verifies:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Each dialect produces >= 1 entity
.IP \(bu 2
Every entity has >= 1 column
.IP \(bu 2
Entity names are PascalCase
.IP \(bu 2
At least one
.B @Id
appears
.IP \(bu 2
At least one
.B @ManyToOne
appears
.IP \(bu 2
Kotlin mode emits
.B Int
not
.B Integer
.RE
.PP
Run with:
.RS 4
.B cargo test --locked
.RE

.SH 11. EXAMPLES
See
.BR api-rest-generator (1)
for invocation examples.

.SH 12. SEE ALSO
.BR api-rest-generator (1),
.BR pg_dump (1),
.BR mysqldump (1),
.BR sqlite3 (1)
