.\" Manpage for spring-boot-rest-generator.
.\" Contact https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/spring-boot-rest-generator to correct errors.
.TH SPRING-BOOT-REST-GENERATOR 1 "2026-05-29" "spring-boot-rest-generator 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spring-boot-rest-generator \- generate a Spring Boot REST API (entities, controllers, DAOs, repositories) from a SQL DDL dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spring-boot-rest-generator
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B spring-boot-rest-generator
parses a raw MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, or MSSQL DDL dump and emits a
fully wired Spring Boot REST API \(em JPA entities (\fI@Id\fR,
\fI@ManyToOne\fR, \fI@JoinColumn\fR), REST controllers (GET / POST / PUT /
DELETE), DAO service layer (GenericDao pattern), and Spring Data JPA
repositories \(em in Java, Kotlin, or Groovy.
.PP
This is the Rust port (v0.2.0+) of the original Kotlin implementation;
the upstream Kotlin source is preserved under
.RB \(aq src/main/kotlin/ \(aq
for reference. The Rust port reuses the same Mustache-style templates
under
.RB \(aq src/main/resources/templates/ \(aq
so output is byte-compatible with the Kotlin generator's existing
templates.
.SH USAGE
The binary takes no command-line arguments. Configure via
.RB \(aq src/main/resources/config.properties \(aq
then run:
.PP
.RS 4
.B spring-boot-rest-generator
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B src/main/resources/config.properties
keys:
.TP
.B target.folder
Output directory root, e.g.
.RB \(aq build/generated/ \(aq.
Defaults to a language-specific path under
.RB \(aq build/generated/src/main/<lang>/ \(aq.
.TP
.B target.package
Java/Kotlin/Groovy package as a forward-slash path, e.g.
.RB \(aq com/example/generated \(aq.
.TP
.B file.name
DDL source file (relative to
.RB \(aq src/main/resources/ \(aq),
e.g.
.RB \(aq mysql_dump.sql \(aq.
.TP
.B target.language
.BR java " | " kotlin " | " groovy
(default
.BR java ).
.TP
.B database.type
.BR mysql " | " postgresql " | " sqlite " | " mssql
(default
.BR mysql ).
.SH DDL DIALECT SUPPORT
.TP
.B MySQL
Standard
.B CREATE TABLE
statements with backtick identifier escapes.
.TP
.B PostgreSQL
.B pg_dump
compatible: handles
.BR "ALTER TABLE \fI...\fR ADD CONSTRAINT" ,
.BR "character varying(n)" " (normalised to " "varchar(n)" "),"
.BR "timestamp [with|without] time zone" ,
.BR "double precision" ,
and schema-prefixed names
.RB ( public.users ).
.TP
.B SQLite
.B .dump
compatible: strips
.BR "IF NOT EXISTS" ,
ignores
.BR PRAGMA " / " INSERT " / " BEGIN " / " COMMIT " / " DELETE
runs, handles inline
.B PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT
clauses.
.TP
.B MSSQL
SSMS / pg_dump-MSSQL compatible: strips
.RB \(aq [bracket] \(aq
identifier escapes, folds
.RB \(aq (max) \(aq
type qualifiers, drops
.B IDENTITY(n,n)
and
.BR CLUSTERED " / " NONCLUSTERED " / " ASC " / " DESC
keywords.
.SH TYPE MAPPING
The generator maps DDL types to JVM/Java/Kotlin types:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
\fBvarchar\fR / \fBtext\fR / \fBnvarchar\fR / \fBuniqueidentifier\fR \(-> \fBString\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBint\fR / \fBtinyint\fR \(-> \fBInteger\fR (Java) | \fBInt\fR (Kotlin)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBbigint\fR / \fBserial bigserial\fR \(-> \fBLong\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBfloat\fR / \fBreal\fR \(-> \fBFloat\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdouble\fR / \fBnumeric\fR / \fBdecimal\fR / \fBmoney\fR \(-> \fBDouble\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdatetime\fR / \fBdate\fR \(-> \fBLocalDate\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtimestamp\fR / \fBdatetime2\fR / \fBdatetimeoffset\fR \(-> \fBLocalDateTime\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtime\fR \(-> \fBLocalTime\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBbit\fR / \fBboolean\fR \(-> \fBString\fR (Java) | \fBBoolean\fR (Kotlin)
.RE
.PP
Primary keys are emitted with
.BR @Id ;
foreign keys (FOREIGN KEY ... REFERENCES) are rewritten to
.B @ManyToOne
+ @JoinColumn referencing the target entity.
.SH OUTPUT LAYOUT
Per
.BR target.package " (e.g. " com/example/generated "):"
.RS 4
.nf
<target.folder>/<target.package>/
    entity/<Name>.{java,kt,groovy}
    rest/<Name>Resource.{java,kt,groovy}
    dao/<Name>Dao.{java,kt,groovy}
    repository/<Name>Repository.{java,kt,groovy}
    utils/GlobalConstants.{java,kt,groovy}
    dao/GenericDao.{java,kt,groovy}
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate Java entities from a MySQL dump:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ cat > src/main/resources/config.properties <<EOF
target.folder=build/generated/
target.package=com/example/generated
file.name=mysql_dump.sql
target.language=java
database.type=mysql
EOF
$ spring-boot-rest-generator
Generated 18 entities under build/generated//com/example/generated
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch to PostgreSQL + Kotlin:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sed -i 's/mysql/postgresql/; s/mysql_dump.sql/pg_dump.sql/; s/java/kotlin/' \\
    src/main/resources/config.properties
$ spring-boot-rest-generator
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B src/main/resources/config.properties
Configuration (required).
.TP
.B src/main/resources/{mysql,pg,sqlite,mssql}_dump.sql
Bundled sample dumps for smoke-testing.
.TP
.B src/main/resources/templates/
Mustache-style templates (\fIentity.tmpl\fR, \fIrest.resource.tmpl\fR,
\fIdao.tmpl\fR, \fIrepository.tmpl\fR, \fIconstants.tmpl\fR,
\fIgenericdao.tmpl\fR) plus per-language subdirs
.RB ( templates/kotlin/ ", " templates/groovy/ ).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Generation succeeded.
.TP
.B non-zero
Config file missing, DDL file missing, template missing, or I/O failure
writing output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR spring-boot-rest-generatorall (1)

.SH AUTHOR
MenkeTechnologies <https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies>

.SH BUGS
Report at
.RB \(aq https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/spring-boot-rest-generator/issues \(aq.
